[Applause]
alec alfonso wheatle
born on the 3rd of january 1963. alec
an illegitimate child was received into
care his mother
deserted a birth nasty little boy
steve was always committed to um telling
the story
of a young black guy who's been
institutionalized
so basically i had to tell about my
experiences in care
and my time in brixton yes man and
how i got to be a writer and also the
brief
spell that i had in prison and steve was
like oh my god oh my god
we have to do that i had no one teach me
jack in my life
a mum or dad brother or sister no one my
whole life
and had nobody aunt weather was brought
up until he was 15
at the shirley oaks children's home and
then he was sent to live in a hostel in
brixton
this was the first time in his life he'd
encountered
west indian culture he was black but he
was brought up in his children's home
and taught nothing about his background
or his culture
so being dropped into brixton was a
big eye-opener for him you is african
not
i might be black but i'm from sorry
there's a big
amount of pressure to tell his story
properly and you want to do it justice
you want the world to see this story
that's it
how do you feel comfortable all right
blew a man what what did you say
yeah did we done but i haven't done my
laces yet
dennis's story line is quite interesting
because he's just the joker of the story
really
he's just a good guy and he just makes
everybody just feel good around him
so his story is just really about making
alex feel comfortable showing him the
way of
you know surviving in brixton now you
have to strut as a blunt man straw
any dread can spot you from a mile
yo bricks down on fire
there's a scene that we shot it's about
the brixton riots
there was a lot of anger in the air back
in the 1970s especially during the
brixton riots when you're in it
you forget the cameraman's there you
forget the same action
i'm just going for it i was watching the
monitor
and it all brought it back right home
for me
the fear the pounding heart still caught
that energy
because he goes there i mean you have to
go there the anger that rage
during the brixton uprising he was
arrested for looting and sent to prison
facing a prison sentence at the age of
18 was the first time he'd had to come
to terms with himself
and he found himself sharing a prison
cell
with a middle-aged rastafarian guy who
took it upon himself to educate this
young boy
there's plenty of tribulations
and ways to deal with everything and the
education we can give
that is your key my character simeon
alex stumbles across him
in prison simeon has a love of reading
education
alex therefore passes that knowledge on
to the youth being alex
and um helps him get his life the
contract i would say start by
reading that will turn your life around
steve mcqueen brings a focus a vision a
real drive
and a passion because he knows that
these stories
deserve to be told he knows that these
stories carry weight steve mcqueen
he's in a league of his own always stuck
in a cell for the entire
duration of it he literally gave you the
freedom to just you know
incorporate whatever you wanted to do
and use that space
if you're doing on your pass then you
won't know your future
steve is making our narratives important
to the fabric of the society
so i really want people to view this
thinking my story is just as important
as alex's or anybody else's out there
so that's what we're doing with this
series
[Music]
you